Create make-calls.rst (#5709)
mattermost/docs: source/channels/make-calls.rst

Make a call (beta)
==================

|enterprise| |cloud| |self-hosted|

.. |enterprise| image:: ../images/enterprise-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/pricing
  :alt: Available in the Mattermost Enterprise subscription plan.

.. |cloud| image:: ../images/cloud-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/download
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Cloud deployments.

.. |self-hosted| image:: ../images/self-hosted-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Self-Hosted deployments.
  

> You can use Mattermost calls for voice calling and screen sharing functionality in channels, group messages, and direct messages. It’s available and on by default in Mattermost Cloud. For self-hosted deployments it's available as a plugin and needs to be enabled <link to config doc>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mattermost calls introduces voice calling and screen sharing functionality in channels, group messages, and direct messages, and is available as a beta release from Mattermost v7.0. Mattermost Cloud users can start using calls right away. For Mattermost self-hosted deployments, calls is available as a plugin that can be enabled in the System Console by a System Admin. <link to config doc>.
```

> - Use calls on desktop and mobile apps in addition to web browsers.

Author: Good point. I've rearranged some things - does that work better?

- Share screen (not available on mobile), raise hands, chat in a thread, and even switch between products in the Mattermost suite (ie. Channels, Boards, and Playbooks) while on a call.

> To start a call, select **Start call** in the channel header. Any active team member in the channel can join a call, whether it's a public or private channel. If someone from outside of the organization wants to join a call you'll need to provide them with a guest account and add them to the channel. Users who are archived or not registered won't be able to join a call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start a call, select **Start call** in the channel header. Any active team member in the channel can join a call, whether it's a public or private channel. If someone from outside of the organization wants to join a call, you'll need to provide them with a guest account, and add them to the channel. Users who are archived or not registered won't be able to join a call.
```

> Each call has a unique URL. You can share a call's URL to use in a meeting request or share with other team mates. The link is unique to each channel and does not change between calls. To access the link, hover over the call dialog in the channel and open the **More** menu. Select **Copy link**. The call link is valid for long as the channel is not archived or deleted.

Reviewer: I'm a bit unclear about call URLs. Once calls is enabled within a Mattermost instance, and calls are then available in any channel, are call URLs static URLs that stay active as long as the channel is active (not archived or deleted)? Does that mean that all calls in a given channel have the same URL that can be shared out to others?

Limitations
-----------

> - In Mattermost Cloud, up to eight participants in each channel can join a call.

Reviewer: in each channel or per channel?

> - In Mattermost self-hosted, the recommended maximum number of participants per server is 200. This can be changed in the ``config.json`` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In Mattermost self-hosted deployments, the recommended maximum number of participants, across all calls in all channels on the server, is 200. This can be changed in the ``config.json`` file.
```

Configuration
-------------

> For Mattermost self-hosted customers, the calls plugin needs to be enabled in the System Console. Additional configuration is also available via the System Console.

Reviewer: would we capitalize "Calls plugin" given that it's the formal name for this particular integration?

Author: Good question. AFAIK, it should be "calls" but all our integrations start with a capital letter. That said, we refer to "calls" in the product docs so this would be inconsistent. Most of the plugins are of/from a product (e.g., GitHub) so naturally would be capitalized. This isn't a product as such, so all that said, @itao, what are your thoughts?

  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/pricing
  :alt: Available in the Mattermost Enterprise subscription plan.

.. |cloud| image:: ../images/cloud-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/download
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Cloud deployments.

.. |self-hosted| image:: ../images/self-hosted-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Self-Hosted deployments.
  
Mattermost calls introduces voice calling and screen sharing functionality in channels, group messages, and direct messages, and is available as a beta release from Mattermost v7.0 for Mattermost Cloud and Mattermost self-hosted deployments.

From 7.0, you can:

- Use calls on desktop and mobile apps in addition to web browsers.
- Share screen (not available on mobile), raise hands, chat in a thread, and even switch between products in the Mattermost suite (ie. Channels, Boards, and Playbooks) while on a call.

Mattermost Cloud users can start using calls right away. For Mattermost self-hosted deployments, calls is available as a plugin that can be enabled in the System Console by a System Admin. <link to config doc>.

> To start a call, select **Start call** in the channel header. Any active team member in the channel can join a call, whether it's a public or private channel. If someone from outside of the organization wants to join a call, you'll need to provide them with a guest account, and add them to the channel. Users who are archived or not registered won't be able to join a call.

Reviewer 2: Should we also mention that a call can be started with the `/call start` slash command as well?

Database load should be minimal. Overall instance load however will be affected, especially CPU usage, growing as a function of the number of participants produce the number of active tracks (unmuted participants and users sharing their screen). Screen sharing has the highest impact on both CPU and bandwidth. The latter can be more easily estimated as the audio/video bitrates are constrained and predictable (around 40-60Kbps for each audio track and up to 1Mbps per screen track).

Are there any third-party services involved?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

STUN servers are configurable on the plugin itself. The default one used is:

- stun:stun.global.calls.mattermost.com:3478

Depending on the setup they may not be necessary (e.g. if running a single instance and providing a ICE Host Override). 

No media goes through STUN servers, the only sensitive information that passes through is the client's (and server's) public IP address.

Troubleshooting
---------------

My call is disconnected after a few seconds and I can't transmit voice nor hear anything.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This is usually a sign that the underlying UDP channel has not been established and the connection timeouts after ~10 seconds. When the connection has been established correctly an `rtc: connected` line should appear in the client-side logs (JS Console).

Author: @streamer45, I've left this in but not sure if we need this section/question? It doesn't provide remediation so it seems unhelpful.

Make a call (beta)
==================

|enterprise| |cloud| |self-hosted|

.. |enterprise| image:: ../images/enterprise-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/pricing
  :alt: Available in the Mattermost Enterprise subscription plan.

.. |cloud| image:: ../images/cloud-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/download
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Cloud deployments.

.. |self-hosted| image:: ../images/self-hosted-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Self-Hosted deployments.
  
Mattermost calls introduces voice calling and screen sharing functionality in channels, group messages, and direct messages, and is available as a beta release from Mattermost v7.0 for Mattermost Cloud and Mattermost self-hosted deployments.

From 7.0, you can:

- Use calls on desktop and mobile apps in addition to web browsers.
- Share screen (not available on mobile), raise hands, chat in a thread, and even switch between products in the Mattermost suite (ie. Channels, Boards, and Playbooks) while on a call.

> Mattermost Cloud users can start using calls right away. For Mattermost self-hosted deployments, calls is available as a plugin that can be enabled in the System Console by a System Admin. <link to config doc>.

Reviewer: link reminder ^

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Database load should be minimal. Overall instance load however will be affected, especially CPU usage, growing as a function of the number of participants produce the number of active tracks (unmuted participants and users sharing their screen). Screen sharing has the highest impact on both CPU and bandwidth. The latter can be more easily estimated as the audio/video bitrates are constrained and predictable (around 40-60Kbps for each audio track and up to 1Mbps per screen track).

If you wish to host many calls or calls with a large number of participants, take a look at the following platform specific (Linux) tunings (this is the only officially supported target for the plugin right now):

# Setting the maximum buffer size of the receiving UDP buffer to 16MB
``net.core.rmem_max = 16777216``

# Setting the maximum buffer size of the sending UDP buffer to 16MB
``net.core.wmem_max = 16777216``

# Allow to allocate more memory as needed for more control messages that need to be sent for each socket connected
``net.core.optmem_max = 16777216``

Are there any third-party services involved?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> STUN servers are configurable on the plugin itself.

Author: ```suggestion
STUN servers are configurable on the plugin itself. These are optional and depend on your configuration.
```

Make a call (beta)
==================

> |enterprise| |cloud| |self-hosted|

Reviewer 3: This seems to say `enterprise`, but later down under 'configuration-settings.rst' it says `all-plans`.

.. |all-plans| image:: ../images/all-plans-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/pricing
  :alt: Available in Mattermost Free and Starter subscription plans.

.. |cloud| image:: ../images/cloud-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/download
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Cloud deployments.

.. |self-hosted| image:: ../images/self-hosted-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Self-Hosted deployments.
  
Mattermost calls introduces voice calling and screen sharing functionality in channels, group messages, and direct messages, and is available as a beta release from Mattermost v7.0 for Mattermost Cloud and Mattermost self-hosted deployments.

From 7.0, you can:

- Use calls on desktop and mobile apps in addition to web browsers.

> - Share screen (not available on mobile), raise hands, chat in a thread, and even switch between products in the Mattermost suite (ie. Channels, Boards, and Playbooks) while on a call.

Author: ```suggestion
- Share screen (not available on mobile), raise hands, chat in a thread, and even switch between products in the Mattermost suite (i.e., Channels, Boards, and Playbooks) while on a call.
```

> - Start a call using the ``/start call`` slash command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Start a call using the ``/call start`` slash command.
```

> Mattermost Cloud users can start using calls right away. For Mattermost self-hosted deployments, calls is available as a plugin that can be enabled in the System Console by a System Admin. <link to config doc>.

Author: ```suggestion
Mattermost Cloud users can start using calls right away. For Mattermost self-hosted deployments, calls is available as a plugin that `can be enabled <https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/configuration-settings.html#calls-beta>`_ in the System Console by a System Admin.
```

To start a call, select **Start call** in the channel header. Any active team member in the channel can join a call, whether it's a public or private channel. If someone from outside of the organization wants to join a call, you'll need to provide them with a guest account, and add them to the channel. Users who are archived or not registered won't be able to join a call.

> Each call has a unique URL. You can share a call's URL to use in a meeting request or share with other team mates. The link is unique to each channel, and contains the channel's ID, so it doesn't change between calls. To access the link, hover over the call dialog in the channel and open the **More** menu. Select **Copy link**. The call link is valid for long as the channel is active. When a channel is archived or deleted the link will become invalid.

Reviewer 2: The call link is slightly different that a normal channel link. It can be "generated" through the `/call link` slash command.

> Each call has a unique URL. You can share a call's URL to use in a meeting request or share with other team mates. The link is unique to each channel, and contains the channel's ID, so it doesn't change between calls. To access the link, hover over the call dialog in the channel and open the **More** menu. Select **Copy link**. The call link is valid for long as the channel is active. When a channel is archived or deleted the link will become invalid.

Author: ```suggestion
You can share a call's link to use in a meeting request or share with other team mates. The link is unique to each channel, and contains the channel's ID, so it doesn't change between calls. To access the link, hover over the call dialog in the channel and open the **More** menu. Select **Copy link**. You can also generate it using the ``call link`` slash command.

The call link is valid for long as the channel is active. When a channel is archived or deleted the link will become invalid.
```

Make a call (beta)
==================

|all-plans| |cloud| |self-hosted|

.. |all-plans| image:: ../images/all-plans-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/pricing
  :alt: Available in Mattermost Free and Starter subscription plans.

.. |cloud| image:: ../images/cloud-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/download
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Cloud deployments.

.. |self-hosted| image:: ../images/self-hosted-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Self-Hosted deployments.
  

> Mattermost calls introduces voice calling and screen sharing functionality in channels, group messages, and direct messages, and is available as a beta release from Mattermost v7.0 for Mattermost Cloud and Mattermost self-hosted deployments.

Reviewer 4: I'd suggest just saying "Mattermost ~~calls~~ introduces voice calling and ..." as grammatically it reads kind of awkward as is.

From 7.0, you can:

> - Use calls on desktop and mobile apps in addition to web browsers.

Reviewer 4: "Start or join a call from desktop and mobile ..."

- Share screen (not available on mobile), raise hands, chat in a thread, and even switch between products in the Mattermost suite (i.e., Channels, Boards, and Playbooks) while on a call.

> - Start a call using the ``/call start`` slash command.

Reviewer 4: " ... or the Start Call button in the channel header."

> Mattermost Cloud users can start using calls right away. For Mattermost self-hosted deployments, calls is available as a plugin that `can be enabled <https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/configuration-settings.html#calls-beta>`_ in the System Console by a System Admin.

Reviewer 4: "Mattermost Cloud users can start calling right out-of-the-box. For self-hosted deployments, System Admins would first need to complete the setup according to this guide here: [link](#)"

To start a call, select **Start call** in the channel header. Any active team member in the channel can join a call, whether it's a public or private channel. If someone from outside of the organization wants to join a call, you'll need to provide them with a guest account, and add them to the channel. Users who are archived or not registered won't be able to join a call.

> You can share a call's link to use in a meeting request or share with other team mates. The link is unique to each channel, and contains the channel's ID, so it doesn't change between calls. Use the ``call link`` slash command to generate a sharable link.

Reviewer 4: There may be a missing slash in `/call link`

> You can share a call's link to use in a meeting request or share with other team mates. The link is unique to each channel, and contains the channel's ID, so it doesn't change between calls. To access the link, hover over the call dialog in the channel and open the **More** menu. Select **Copy link**. You can also generate it using the ``call link`` slash command.

Reviewer 2: Apologies for not being extra clear but the `/call link` command is the only reliable way to get this link unless someone constructs it by hand but I wouldn't recommend it. There isn't any other UI to get it.

The channel link is not the same as the call link. Only the ID is the same, but then it would look like:

```
SITE_URL/TEAM_NAME/channels/CHANNEL_ID?join_call=true
```

The call link is valid for long as the channel is active. When a channel is archived or deleted the link will become invalid.

Limitations
-----------

> - In Mattermost Cloud, up to eight participants per channel can join a call.

Reviewer 4: Worth mentioning that this is a temporary and ever-changing limitation of the public beta.

- In Mattermost self-hosted deployments, the default maximum number of participants is unlimited. The recommended maximum number of participants, across all calls in all channels on the server, is 200. This setting can be changed in **System Console > Plugin Management > Calls > Max call participants**.

Configuration
-------------

> For Mattermost self-hosted customers, the calls plugin needs to be enabled in the System Console. Additional configuration is also available via the System Console.

Reviewer: Is it possible to include a link to these config details?

> For Mattermost self-hosted customers, the calls plugin `needs to be enabled <https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/configuration-settings.html#calls-beta>`_ in the System Console. Additional configuration is also available via the System Console.

Reviewer 4: The plugin will actually be pre-packaged, installed, and enabled, it's the setup guide that admins need to go through to turn it on for their end-users.
